README.md, before:

# eFaas Laravel Socialite

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/javaabu/efaas-socialite.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/javaabu/efaas-socialite)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/javaabu/efaas-socialite/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/javaabu/efaas-socialite)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/javaabu/efaas-socialite.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/javaabu/efaas-socialite)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/javaabu/efaas-socialite.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/javaabu/efaas-socialite)

[Laravel Socialite](https://github.com/laravel/socialite) Provider for [eFaas](https://efaas.egov.mv/).

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

``` bash
composer require javaabu/efaas-socialite
```

**Laravel 5.5** and above uses Package Auto-Discovery, so doesn't require you to manually add the ServiceProvider.

After updating composer, add the ServiceProvider to the providers array in config/app.php

``` bash
Javaabu\EfaasSocialite\Providers\EfaasSocialiteServiceProvider::class,
```


### Add configuration to `config/services.php`

```php
'efaas' => [    
    'client_id' => env('EFAAS_CLIENT_ID'),  
    'client_secret' => env('EFAAS_CLIENT_SECRET'),  
    'redirect' => env('EFAAS_REDIRECT_URI'),
    'mode' => env('EFAAS_MODE', 'development'), // supports production, development            
],
```

### Usage

**Note:** A demo implementation of this package is available [here](https://github.com/ncit-devs/Efaas-Implementation-Javaabu).

You should now be able to use the provider like you would regularly use Socialite (assuming you have the facade installed):
Refer to the [Official Social Docs](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/socialite#routing) for more info.

**Warning:** If you get `403 Forbidden` error when your Laravel app makes requests to the eFaas authorization endpoints, request NCIT to whitelist your server IP.

```php
return Socialite::driver('efaas')->redirect();
```

and in your callback handler, you can access the user data like so.

```
$efaas_user = Socialite::driver('efaas')->user();
$access_token = $efaas_user->token;
```

#### Logging out the eFaas User

In your Laravel logout redirect, redirect with the provider `logOut()` method using the access token saved during login

``` php
return Socialite::driver('efaas')->logOut($access_token, $post_logout_redirect_url);
```

#### Authenticating from mobile apps

To authenticate users from mobile apps, redirect to the eFaas login screen through a Web View on the mobile app.
Then intercept the `code` (authorization code) from eFaas after they redirect you back to your website after logging in to eFaas.

Once your mobile app receives the auth code, send the code to your API endpoint.
You can then get the eFaas user details from your server side using the auth code as follows:

``` php
$efaas_user = Socialite::driver('efaas')->userFromCode($code);
```

After you receive the eFaas user, you can then issue your own access token or API key according to whatever authentication scheme you use for your API.

#### Available Methods for eFaas User

``` php
$efaas_user->isMaldivian(); // Check if is a Maldivian
$efaas_user->getDhivehiName(); // Full name in Dhivehi
```

#### Getting eFaas data from eFaas User object

``` php
$id_number = $oauth_user->idnumber;
```

#### Available eFaas data fields
 Field                   | Description                                    | Example
------------------------ |----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------
**`name`**               | Full Name                                      | `Ahmed Mohamed`
**`given_name`**         | First Name                                     | `Ahmed`
**`middle_name`**        | Middle Name                                    | 
**`family_name`**        | Last Name                                      | `Mohamed`
**`idnumber`**           | ID number in case of maldivian and workpermit number in case of expatriates | `A037420`                                     | `Ahmed`
**`gender`**             | Gender                                         | `M` or `F`
**`address`**            | Permananet Address. Country will contain an ISO 3 Digit country code. | ```["AddressLine1" => "Light Garden", "AddressLine2" => "", "Road" => "", "AtollAbbreviation" => "K", "IslandName" => "Male", "HomeNameDhivehi" => "ލައިޓްގާރޑްން", "Ward" => "Maafannu", "Country" => "462"]```                                     | `Ahmed`
**`phone_number`**       | Registered phone number                        | `9939900`
**`email`**              | Email address                                  | `ahmed@example.com`
**`fname_dhivehi`**      | First name in Dhivehi                          | `އަހުމަދު`
**`mname_dhivehi`**      | Middle name in Dhivehi                         |
**`lname_dhivehi`**      | Last name in Dhivehi                           | `މުހައްމަދު`
**`user_type`**          | User type<br>1- Maldivian<br>2- Work Permit Holder<br>3- Foreigners | 1
**`user_type_desc`**     | Description of the user type                   | `Maldivian`
**`verification_level`** | Verification level of the user in efaas<br>100: Not Verified<br>150: Verified by calling<br>200: Mobile Phone registered in the name of User<br>250: Verified in person (Limited)<br>300: Verified in person | `300`
**`verification_level_desc`**     | Description of the verification level | `Verified in person`
**`user_state`**          | User's state<br>2- Pending Verification<br>3- Active | `3`
**`user_state_desc`**     | Description of user's state                   | `Active`
**`birthdate`**           | Date of birth. (Carbon instance)              | `10/28/1987`
**`is_workpermit_active`** | Is the work permit active                    | `false`
**`passport_number`**     | Passport number of the individual (expat and foreigners only) | 
**`updated_at`**          | Information Last Updated date. (Carbon instance) | `10/28/2017`  

### Testing

``` bash
composer test
```

### Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email info@javaabu.com instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Javaabu Pvt. Ltd.](https://github.com/javaabu)
- [Arushad Ahmed (@dash8x)](http://arushad.org)
- [Mohamed Jailam](http://github.com/muhammedjailam)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

- Added laravel 10 support - Added one tap login support

README.md, after:

# eFaas Laravel Socialite

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/javaabu/efaas-socialite.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/javaabu/efaas-socialite)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/javaabu/efaas-socialite/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/javaabu/efaas-socialite)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/javaabu/efaas-socialite.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/javaabu/efaas-socialite)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/javaabu/efaas-socialite.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/javaabu/efaas-socialite)

[Laravel Socialite](https://github.com/laravel/socialite) Provider for [eFaas](https://efaas.egov.mv/).

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

``` bash
composer require javaabu/efaas-socialite
```

**Laravel 5.5** and above uses Package Auto-Discovery, so doesn't require you to manually add the ServiceProvider.

After updating composer, add the ServiceProvider to the providers array in config/app.php

``` bash
Javaabu\EfaasSocialite\Providers\EfaasSocialiteServiceProvider::class,
```


### Add configuration to `config/services.php`

```php
'efaas' => [    
    'client_id' => env('EFAAS_CLIENT_ID'),  
    'client_secret' => env('EFAAS_CLIENT_SECRET'),  
    'redirect' => env('EFAAS_REDIRECT_URI'),
    'mode' => env('EFAAS_MODE', 'development'), // supports production, development            
],
```

### Usage

**Note:** A demo implementation of this package is available [here](https://github.com/ncit-devs/Efaas-Implementation-Javaabu).

You should now be able to use the provider like you would regularly use Socialite (assuming you have the facade installed):
Refer to the [Official Social Docs](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/socialite#routing) for more info.

**Warning:** If you get `403 Forbidden` error when your Laravel app makes requests to the eFaas authorization endpoints, request NCIT to whitelist your server IP.

```php
return Socialite::driver('efaas')->redirect();
```

and in your callback handler, you can access the user data like so.

```
$efaas_user = Socialite::driver('efaas')->user();
$access_token = $efaas_user->token;
```

#### Logging out the eFaas User

In your Laravel logout redirect, redirect with the provider `logOut()` method using the access token saved during login

``` php
return Socialite::driver('efaas')->logOut($access_token, $post_logout_redirect_url);
```

#### Using eFaas One-tap Login

This package supports eFaas one-tap login out of the box. 
If the `efaas_login_code` parameter is present on the url for your eFaas redirect endpoint, then the login code will be automatically added to the eFaas redirect.

#### Authenticating from mobile apps

To authenticate users from mobile apps, redirect to the eFaas login screen through a Web View on the mobile app.
Then intercept the `code` (authorization code) from eFaas after they redirect you back to your website after logging in to eFaas.

Once your mobile app receives the auth code, send the code to your API endpoint.
You can then get the eFaas user details from your server side using the auth code as follows:

``` php
$efaas_user = Socialite::driver('efaas')->userFromCode($code);
```

After you receive the eFaas user, you can then issue your own access token or API key according to whatever authentication scheme you use for your API.

#### Available Methods for eFaas User

``` php
$efaas_user->isMaldivian(); // Check if is a Maldivian
$efaas_user->getDhivehiName(); // Full name in Dhivehi
```

#### Getting eFaas data from eFaas User object

``` php
$id_number = $oauth_user->idnumber;
```

#### Available eFaas data fields
 Field                   | Description                                    | Example
------------------------ |----------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------
**`name`**               | Full Name                                      | `Ahmed Mohamed`
**`given_name`**         | First Name                                     | `Ahmed`
**`middle_name`**        | Middle Name                                    | 
**`family_name`**        | Last Name                                      | `Mohamed`
**`idnumber`**           | ID number in case of maldivian and workpermit number in case of expatriates | `A037420`                                     | `Ahmed`
**`gender`**             | Gender                                         | `M` or `F`
**`address`**            | Permananet Address. Country will contain an ISO 3 Digit country code. | ```["AddressLine1" => "Light Garden", "AddressLine2" => "", "Road" => "", "AtollAbbreviation" => "K", "IslandName" => "Male", "HomeNameDhivehi" => "ލައިޓްގާރޑްން", "Ward" => "Maafannu", "Country" => "462"]```                                     | `Ahmed`
**`phone_number`**       | Registered phone number                        | `9939900`
**`email`**              | Email address                                  | `ahmed@example.com`
**`fname_dhivehi`**      | First name in Dhivehi                          | `އަހުމަދު`
**`mname_dhivehi`**      | Middle name in Dhivehi                         |
**`lname_dhivehi`**      | Last name in Dhivehi                           | `މުހައްމަދު`
**`user_type`**          | User type<br>1- Maldivian<br>2- Work Permit Holder<br>3- Foreigners | 1
**`user_type_desc`**     | Description of the user type                   | `Maldivian`
**`verification_level`** | Verification level of the user in efaas<br>100: Not Verified<br>150: Verified by calling<br>200: Mobile Phone registered in the name of User<br>250: Verified in person (Limited)<br>300: Verified in person | `300`
**`verification_level_desc`**     | Description of the verification level | `Verified in person`
**`user_state`**          | User's state<br>2- Pending Verification<br>3- Active | `3`
**`user_state_desc`**     | Description of user's state                   | `Active`
**`birthdate`**           | Date of birth. (Carbon instance)              | `10/28/1987`
**`is_workpermit_active`** | Is the work permit active                    | `false`
**`passport_number`**     | Passport number of the individual (expat and foreigners only) | 
**`updated_at`**          | Information Last Updated date. (Carbon instance) | `10/28/2017`  

### Testing

``` bash
composer test
```

### Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email info@javaabu.com instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Javaabu Pvt. Ltd.](https://github.com/javaabu)
- [Arushad Ahmed (@dash8x)](http://arushad.org)
- [Mohamed Jailam](http://github.com/muhammedjailam)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
